Release notes 1.6.0 (#277)
NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver: release_notes/nrf_802154_1.6.0.md

# nRF IEEE 802.15.4 radio driver 1.6.0 release notes

Release date: October 3, 2019

> This release introduces support for the three-pin from-end modules. There is also implemented a new algorithm that manages the Pending Bits in the acknowledgements according to the requirements for the Zigbee protocol. SoftDevice in version 7.0.1 is supported natively by the driver now.

Reviewer: `from-end` or `front-end`?

> This release introduces support for the three-pin from-end modules. There is also implemented a new algorithm that manages the Pending Bits in the acknowledgements according to the requirements for the Zigbee protocol. SoftDevice in version 7.0.1 is supported natively by the driver now.

Author: It's a name of a field in an 802.15.4 frame.

> This release introduces support for the three-pin from-end modules. There is also implemented a new algorithm that manages the Pending Bits in the acknowledgements according to the requirements for the Zigbee protocol. SoftDevice in version 7.0.1 is supported natively by the driver now.

Author: It's S140 7.0.1. I'm not fluent in SDs versions :)
Shall we make `pending bits` lower case despite the fact it's name of a field in a frame?

> This release introduces support for the three-pin from-end modules. There is also implemented a new algorithm that manages the Pending Bits in the acknowledgements according to the requirements for the Zigbee protocol. SoftDevice in version 7.0.1 is supported natively by the driver now.

Reviewer 2: OK, keep it capitalized.

> This release introduces support for the three-pin from-end modules. There is also implemented a new algorithm that manages the Pending Bits in the acknowledgements according to the requirements for the Zigbee protocol. SoftDevice in version 7.0.1 is supported natively by the driver now.

Reviewer 2: No, keep it capitalized. And please add `S140` before the name of the SoftDevice.

> The defines containing revision of the chip are removed what helps with porting the 802.15.4 driver between Nordic chips. However it caused removed support for the first engineering version of the nRF52840 device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The defines that contain the revision number of the chip are now removed, which simplifies porting the 802.15.4 driver between Nordic chips. However, this change deprecates support for the first engineering version of the nRF52840 device.
```

Author: I wouldn't say `deprecates`. It suggest that it is out-dated, but still supported. Support for these devices is removed now - they do not work by design of the driver in version 1.6.0.

Reviewer 2: So let's write `makes the support for the first [...] device outdated.` Sounds good?

Additionaly, this release includes several bugfixes.

> ## Migration guide:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Migration guide
```
As mentioned before, never use colons in headers.

> Release 1.6.0 provides a new header file that must be added to the build system:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The 1.6.0 release provides a new header file that contains the configuration of all peripherals used by the 802.15.4 driver. Add the following file to the build system:
```

> * src/nrf_802154_peripherals.h - a file containing configuration of all peripherals used by the 802.15.4 driver.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* src/nrf_802154_peripherals.h
```

> Due to refactoring of the chip revision management, one source file is deleted and must be removed from the build system:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because of the refactoring of the chip revision management, the following source file has been deleted and must be removed from the build system:
```

* src/nrf_802154_revision.c

## New features

> * Added the support for the three-pin front-end modules. See [PR #265](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/265), [PR #269](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/269), and [PR #276](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/276).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Added support for three-pin front-end modules. See [PR #265](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/265), [PR #269](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/269), and [PR #276](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/276).
```

> * Added the Pending Bit setting algorithm for the acknowledgements in the Zigbee protocol. [PR #270](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/270).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Added an algorithm that manages pending bits in the acknowledgements in the Zigbee protocol. See [PR #270](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/270).
```

Author: `pending bits` again. Is it ok to make it lower-case?

* Added a new random number generator platform that uses a re-entrant function from the newlib library. See [PR #268](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/268).
* Added stubs for the Wi-Fi coexistance functionality. See [PR #272](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/272) and [PR #274](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/274).

## Changes

> * Removed defines containing revision of the chip and removed support for the engineering version of the nRF52840 device. See [PR #266](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/266) and [PR #264](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/264).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Removed defines that contain revision of the chip and removed support for the engineering version of the nRF52840 device. See [PR #266](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/266) and [PR #264](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/264).
```

> * Updated supported SoftDevice to version 7.0.1. See [PR #273](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/273).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Updated supported SoftDevice to v7.0.1. See [PR #273](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/273).
```

> * Moved the peripheral usage information that was previously scattered across all modules to the single header file. See [PR #271](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/271).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Gathered the peripheral usage information that was previously scattered across all modules into a single header file. See [PR #271](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/271).
```

## Bug fixes

> * Removed possibility of uninitialized pointer access. See [PR #263](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/263).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Removed the possibility of an uninitialized pointer access. See [PR #263](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/263).
```

> * Fixed header path of the SoftDevice module providing the random number generator functions. See [PR #267](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/267).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fixed header path of the SoftDevice module that provides random number generator functions. See [PR #267](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/267).
```

## Limitations

> * The driver is tested only with the default configuration (no changes in the nrf_802154_config.h file). Test applications are compiled with optimizations for the code size. Any other configuration and optimization level shall be considered as experimental.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The driver is tested only with the default configuration (that is, without changes in the nrf_802154_config.h file). Test applications are compiled with optimizations for the code size. Any other configuration and optimization level is to be considered as experimental.
```
We don't use `shall`. Only `must`, `can`, `might`.

> * Number of supported peers for the Auto Pending Bit feature is limited to 127.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Number of supported peers for the auto pending bit feature is limited to 127.
```

* In the multiprotocol configuration (SoftDevice RAAL), the application cannot use IRQ priority levels 2 and 3.
* The delayed operations do not detect delays caused by the ISR latency. Because of the ISR latency, the delayed transmission might be delayed for too long, or the reception window might be shorter than requested for the delayed transmission operation. To avoid such problems, it is recommended to minimize the ISR latency of the RTC instance that is used by the lp_timer module (RTC2 by default).

### Limitations of simultaneous operation of the SoftDevice front end and the 802.15.4 front end

> * Do not use the PPI channels reserved by the SoftDevice. The S140 SoftDevice v6.1.0 reserves PPI channels 17-31. Check the definition of the `NRF_SOC_SD_PPI_CHANNELS_SD_ENABLED_MSK` macro in the `nrf_soc.h` file to verify the list of reserved PPI channels.

Reviewer: "The S140 SoftDevice v6.1.0 reserves", what about 7.0.1 we support now?

* The SoftDevice and the 802.15.4 driver must use separate sets of PPI channels, for example (1, 2) and (3, 4).
* The SoftDevice and the 802.15.4 driver must use separate sets of GPIOTE channels, for example 4 and (6, 7).

## Known issues
* If `NRF_802154_USE_RAW_API` is disabled, a pointer to a frame passed by the transmission result notifications is invalid.
  * Workaround: Enable `NRF_802154_USE_RAW_API` if the code relies on the passed pointer.
* Deinitialization during the transmission procedure works incorrectly.

>   * Workaround: Enter sleep state prior to deinitialization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Workaround: Enter sleep state before the deinitialization.
```
`prior to` is just a fancy way of saying `before`. Don't be fancy, be direct.

> * Deinitialization of the driver works incorrectly in the multiprotocol configuration (simulator or SoftDevice RAAL).

Reviewer 2: What is the workaround? If there is none, mention there is none. But if there is none, wouldn't this be a limitation?

Author: It's a bug (not limitation) and we don't know a workaround. This functionality must not be used in the described configuration.

Reviewer 2: Please add a line saying `There is no known workaround for this bug.`

# nRF IEEE 802.15.4 radio driver 1.6.0 release notes

Release date: October 3, 2019

> This release introduces support for three-pin front-end modules, adds native support for S140 SoftDevice v7.0.1, and implements a new algorithm that manages Pending Bits in the acknowledgements according to the Zigbee protocol requirements.

Reviewer 3: S140 and S113 can be run both on nRF52833 and nRF52840.

> This release introduces support for three-pin front-end modules, adds native support for S140 SoftDevice v7.0.1, and implements a new algorithm that manages Pending Bits in the acknowledgements according to the Zigbee protocol requirements.

Author: Resolved F2F

> The defines that contain the revision number of the chip are now removed, which simplifies porting the 802.15.4 driver between Nordic chips. However, this change make the support for the first engineering version of the nRF52840 device outdated.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The defines that contain the revision number of the chip are now removed, which simplifies porting the 802.15.4 driver between Nordic chips. However, this means that the first engineering version of the nRF52840 device is no longer supported.
```

> Additionaly, this release includes several bugfixes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Additionaly, this release includes several bug fixes.
```

## Migration guide
The 1.6.0 release provides a new header file that contains the configuration of all peripherals used by the 802.15.4 driver. Add the following file to the build system:
* src/nrf_802154_peripherals.h

Because of the refactoring of the chip revision management, the following source file has been deleted and must be removed from the build system:
* src/nrf_802154_revision.c

## New features
* Added support for three-pin front-end modules. See [PR #265](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/265), [PR #269](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/269), and [PR #276](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/276).
* Added an algorithm that manages Pending Bits in the acknowledgements in the Zigbee protocol. See [PR #270](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/270).

> * Added a new random number generator platform that uses a re-entrant function from the newlib library. See [PR #268](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/268).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Added a new random number generator platform that uses a reentrant function from the newlib library. See [PR #268](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/268).
```

* Added stubs for the Wi-Fi coexistance functionality. See [PR #272](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/272) and [PR #274](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/274).

## Changes

> * Removed defines that contain revision of the chip and removed support for the engineering version of the nRF52840 device. See [PR #266](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/266) and [PR #264](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/264).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Removed defines that contain the revision of the chip and removed support for the engineering version of the nRF52840 device. See [PR #266](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/266) and [PR #264](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/264).
```

> * Removed defines that contain the revision of the chip and removed support for the engineering version of the nRF52840 device. See [PR #266](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/266) and [PR #264](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/264).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Removed defines that contain the revision of the chip and removed support for the Engineering A revision of the nRF52840 device. See [PR #266](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/266) and [PR #264](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/264).
```

* Fixed header path of the SoftDevice module that provides random number generator functions. See [PR #267](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/267).

## Limitations
* The driver is tested only with the default configuration (that is, without changes in the nrf_802154_config.h file). Test applications are compiled with optimizations for the code size. Any other configuration and optimization level is to be considered as experimental.
* Number of supported peers for the Auto Pending Bit feature is limited to 127.
* In the multiprotocol configuration (SoftDevice RAAL), the application cannot use IRQ priority levels 2 and 3.
* The delayed operations do not detect delays caused by the ISR latency. Because of the ISR latency, the delayed transmission might be delayed for too long, or the reception window might be shorter than requested for the delayed transmission operation. To avoid such problems, it is recommended to minimize the ISR latency of the RTC instance that is used by the lp_timer module (RTC2 by default).

### Limitations of simultaneous operation of the SoftDevice front end and the 802.15.4 front end

> * Do not use the PPI channels reserved by the SoftDevice. The S140 SoftDevice v7.0.1 reserves PPI channels 17-31. Check the definition of the `NRF_SOC_SD_PPI_CHANNELS_SD_ENABLED_MSK` macro in the `nrf_soc.h` file to verify the list of reserved PPI channels.

Reviewer 5: The same comment as above regarding different SoftDevices.
